---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Javascript, the new frontier
date: 2020-09-03
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

I've had experiences with a couple different languages like Java, C, Visual Basic. They have the same flow, the same gist like every programming language; make a variable, assign it a data type, do something with it.
You know, standard procedure but javascript is pretty different. It's not as strict allowing one to get away with some stuffs like return two differnt data type in a function. Which is useful sometimes, other times it makes troubleshooting a bit complicated. I had some trouble already in a couple of the workout of the day, aka WODs, where the program returns something I didn't expect it to be.
Javascript ES6 is trying to making coding more streamline by bypassing traditional syntax like
```
function myFunc(name) {
  return 'Hello' + name;
}
```
to
```
const myFunc(name) = name =>'Hello ${name}';
```
making it more readable and understandable. It's something taking use to since I'm still familiar with the traditional way.

Not only is javascipt a new thing for me, I'm being taught a different approach to programming. Professor Johnson is assigning the class WODs to program within a certain timeframe. For instance; one of the WODs was to create a blackjack checker, a program that takes a str of cards 1-9 and TJKQA and return blackjack, busted or their values, within 15 mins. It was pretty stressful due to the vast contrast of before where I could take my time to think it out and look up some information. While this style of programming is opposite of what I prefer, it would help me learn to get things done in a timely manner. I would need a lot more practices to be at a point where I would be content with my programming ability. 
